---
pageClass: general
---
# General
[[toc]]

### What do you think of the pair programming?
::: warning Answer
Pair programming is a new working method that consists of having two developers work together on the same workstation.

This way of working has not been adopted by all companies, and perhaps not by yours. However, thanks to this question, you will know if the PHP developer you are questioning is a team player.
:::

### What do you know about our industry?
::: warning Answer
This question is very important, and some candidates will be unable to answer it. A PHP developer who knows, even vaguely, the industry in which you’re doing business, shows a certain curiosity and that he is able to take a step back.
:::

### What type of corporate culture do you prefer?
::: warning Answer
Depending on whether your company has an entrepreneurial or managerial corporate culture, its operating mode is not the same. You should favor candidates who prefer the type of corporate culture in place in your organization.

However, it is preferable for the candidate to provide a nuanced answer. Indeed, a candidate who totally rejects a structured corporate culture may suggest that he or she will have difficulty following the guidelines. On the other hand, a candidate who answers that he/she hates entrepreneurial corporate culture may not be able to think outside the box, and to work independently. Don’t forget that soft skills are part of the skills a good PHP programmer should have.
:::

### Do you have experience working in a client-facing role, or working directly with the user? If not, would you like to?
::: warning Answer
This question is another way of asking how well your candidate is able to deal with criticism. Whether feedback originates from within the company or is generated by the users, inevitably all projects will be the subject of strong words. The ability to treat critique as an opportunity to improve is an important personality trait, yet may not be well honed in each of your candidates.
:::

## Role-specific questions
### What error types have you faced and how did you fix them?
### If you need to generate random numbers in PHP, what method would you follow?
### How can you get web browser’s details using PHP?
### How would you set cookies in your website?
### Are you familiar with SQL? How would you create a MySql database using PHP?
### What are your duties in the software development lifecycle?
### Explain how you develop and integrate plugins for PHP frameworks, like Laravel and Yii.
### What features would you develop to increase user experience quality? Name any examples you find appropriate.
### What’s your experience with open source projects like Joomla, Drupal or osCommerce?
### Can you give some examples of best design and coding practices?
### How can HTML, CSS, Javascript or AJAX help you when designing a web application?
### Describe the troubleshooting process you follow when a program doesn’t run properly.

## Behavioral questions
### What’s a fun project that you’ve worked on recently?
### If you could attend any tech seminar, which one would you choose and why?
### How do you ensure you discover all current programming trends?
### Describe a situation where you collaborated with developers and engineers to complete a project. What was your contribution to the team?
