---
pageClass: php
---
# Php
##IP address
How do you proceed if you need to get a user’s IP address?”
### Answer
This question shows the level of creativity of the developer, as there are many possibilities to find an IP address.  For example, we can use the script : $_SERVER[“REMOTE_ADDR”];
This is the fastest and most obvious answer, but a multitude of other solutions are possible.
##Traits
What are Traits made for?
### Answer
Traits are an advanced feature of PHP, they allow to create reusable code in a language like PHP. A Trait cannot be generated by itself, the candidate must be familiar with the advanced functionalities of a programming language in which he or she will be required to work. Knowledge of these features is an important indication of the candidate’s familiarity with this language.
##Errors
Describe the three error types that exist in PHP.
### Answer
Knowledge of error types is fundamental for any developer, especially those who use PHP. This knowledge allows the developer to understand where the errors come from in order to be able to fix them as well as possible.

Here the candidate must first list the error types and then explain them. He must say that there are three errors types: Notices, Warning and Fatal. Then, the candidate must explain that Notices are errors that occur when the error is simple and non-critical, while Warning is a more serious error. In both cases, these errors will not cause the script to stop running. The last error, called Fatal, is much more problematic since it causes the script to stop running.
##PHP 8.0
What’s new in PHP 8.0?
### Answer
The main new features of PHP 8.0 will be the JIT (Just in Time compilation), consistent type erros for internal functions, fatal error for incompatible method signatures and arrays starting with a negative index

A candidate who knows how to answer this specific question proves that he is passionate about programming, and that he keeps up to date with the latest evolution of PHP.

PHP release history:

- PHP 1.0 : 1995
- PHP 2.0 : 1997
- PHP 3.0 : 1998
- PHP 4.0 : 2000
- PHP 5.0 : 2005
- PHP 6.0 : Abandoned version of PHP, never released
- PHP 7.0 : 2015
- PHP 8.0 : 2020/2021

##Good programmer
What do you think are the essential attributes that a PHP developer should have?

### Answer
This job interview question is a classic one, but some answers are expected from a good PHP programmer.

These include logical reasoning, analytical thinking, perseverance, insatiable curiosity, rigor and abnegation.

Each of these qualities is evidence of the candidate’s ability to work as a PHP developer.

##Classes
What is the role of _construct() and _destruct() methods in a PHP class?
The answer to this interview question determines whether the candidate has any knowledge of object-oriented programming. All objects in the PHP language have construct and destruct methods built-in. The Constructor method is used each time a new class instance is created, it is then called to initialize the properties of this class. The destruct method does not accept any parameters.

### Answer
The answer to this interview question determines whether the candidate has any knowledge of object-oriented programming. All objects in the PHP language have construct and destruct methods built-in. The Constructor method is used each time a new class instance is created, it is then called to initialize the properties of this class. The destruct method does not accept any parameters.

##Constants
Can the value that was previously assigned to a constant change during script execution?

### Answer
No. When a value has been assigned to a constant, it cannot change during the script execution.

##Functions
What is the difference between unset() and unlink()?

### Answer
Using unset() allows the developer to change the variable to an undefined state, while the unlink() command deletes the file that is sent from the system.

##Functions
Declare a function, which will only accept the word “Hello” as a parameter.

If the data entered matches what was requested, then the function will display “Hello”. Otherwise it will display “Bye”.
```php
function showMessage($hello = false) {
  echo ($hello) ? 'hello' : 'bye';
}
```
### Answer
This question is a very good opportunity to assess the candidate’s ability to declare functions.

## Arrays
How to proceed in order to get the quantity of elements in an array?
### Answer
Here, we are dealing with a rather basic interview question about arrays. Knowing how to extract data from an array is part of the basic knowledge for any properly trained junior developer.
If you’re not familiar with the term “array”, here’s a definition :
```textmate
An array is a data structure that contains a group of elements. Typically these elements are all of the same data type, such as an integer or string. Arrays are commonly used in computer programs to organize data so that a related set of values can be easily sorted or searched.
For example, a search engine may use an array to store Web pages found in a search performed by the user. When displaying the results, the program will output one element of the array at a time. This may be done for a specified number of values or until all the values stored in the array have been output. While the program could create a new variable for each result found, storing the results in an array is much more efficient way to manage memory.
```
The optimal answer here is to use the count () function.

## Frameworks
Could you name some PHP frameworks?
### Answer
During the interview, the interviewed candidate must mention at least three PHP frameworks among this list:

- Laravel, a free, open-source, PHP web framework intended for the development of web applications following the MVC architectural pattern and based on Symfony. It’s the most popular PHP framework.
- CodeIgniter, an open-source software rapid development web framework, used to build dynamic sites with PHP.
- Symfony, a PHP web application framework and a set of reusable components and libraries. It is released under the MIT license.
- CakePHP
- FuelPHP
- PHPixie
- Phalcon
- Slim
- Zend Framework
- Yii 2

## Getters and Setters
Why use Getters and Setters?
### Answer
Getters and Setters are methods used to declare or get the value of a private variable. They allow data to be processed, reported and displayed. Within these methods, it is possible to process the data, which will then be assigned within a variable function.

## Functions
What is the difference between the functions include() and require()?
### Answer
The first one, contrary to the second one, is used to ensure that a file is included within the script during its execution. The candidate can use a demonstration, in which we have for example five files, one.txt, two.txt and so on up to five. The files contain numbers from one to five (a number in each file).
```php
for($i=1; $i<=5; $i++) {
  include "$i.txt";
}
```

The compilation time has been included once in each file. On the other hand, if we make the decision to write require instead of the other command, we will get a fatal error.
Another difference between these two commands is that require always gives a fatal error if the requested file is missing, while include will simply display a warning, and continue to compile the code.

## Variables
What will be the output of this script?
```php
$a = '1';
$b = &$a;
$b = "2$b";
echo $a.", ".$b;
```
### Answer
21, 21

## Functions
The value of the input variable is 9,3,5,5,7,8. How do I get the sum of the numbers of this list?
### Answer
```php
$input = '9,3,5,5,7,8';
echo array_sum(explode(',', $input));
```
The explode function is one of the most frequently used in PHP language, so it is very important to understand if the candidate masters this function.

## Functions
What is the correct way to create a function in PHP?
### Answer
The answer to this very easy interview question is:
```php
function functionName() {
  // Function code.
}
```
A candidate who is unable to answer it does not have sufficient PHP skills

## Functions
What is the mail() function used for?
### Answer
The answer to this question is that this function can be used to send an email from a PHP script.

## Scope
How many scope levels exist in the PHP language? Describe them.
### Answer
This interview question shows that the future PHP developer understands the essence of programming and is not just typing code without thinking beforehand. Moreover, this issue is important from the standpoint of data security, which is a key issue in our time.

The candidate must mention here the three existing scope levels of PHP which are Private, Public and Protected, and explain that the first level is visible only in his own class, the second one is visible by any script performing accessing the class and the last one is visible only by the parent classes.

## Operators
Why should you use === and not ==?
### Answer
=== and == are two PHP comparison operators.

First of all === is faster than ==, because it does not convert the different types. In addition, if you want to check a particular type === will do exactly what you requested, while == will convert the data only for a limited time and will try to use both types of operators.
## Operators
How to combine two strings in PHP?
### Answer
To concatenate two string variables, just use the dot(.) operator

This results in a single string.
## MySQL
How to connect a MySQL database using PHP?
### Answer
MySQL is the most popular database system used with PHP. The answer to this interview question is to use mysql_connection function.
